Hello and welcome back to that math course in our programming it's really great how much recovering
.
I'm very excited how much we've already gone through in terms of lists and as you can see these tutorials
aren't as complicated.
It is all pretty straightforward.
After you know all those things that we do already know about doorframes and vectors and all those operations
with them lists are just a natural progression.
And just to kind of reiterate the things we've talked about before we proceed with today's Tauriel I
wanted to throw a quick challenge.
And so just to kind of recap on what we've learned so far we've got a list all one and here we've got
quite a few elements already on components.
So you'll notice that we've got one two three four five components.
My question to you was our challenge is how to how would you access this date.
So the first date in the component which is called Unknown hours.
So go ahead and post a video you should you should be able to do it in two different ways.
Pause the video and see if you can solve this challenge and access that component in two different ways
should take you literally a couple of seconds.
OK.
And now I'm just going to show you how to do this.
So quick challenge.
So the first way is to go list underscore our old one and then we know that this is the one two three
four four components so I would say list on Squirrel one double square brackets 4.
And then we want the first value of this vector so this would give us the vector.
This would give us the first value of the vector.
There we go.
That is the value we're after.
And the second way of doing this would be a list on the score or a one dollar sign.
And then you've got this pop up.
And here we need the unknown hours.
So that would give us the vector and then it would say number one it might look a bit confusing at the
start right.
If you saw this before you started this section if you so construct construction like this or like this
it might have looked a bit confusing but now you must be totally comfortable with what's going on here
.
And that means you're keeping up with the tutorials which is great.
And now we're going to proceed with today's topic.
Subsetting lists right so let's proceed.
All right so what are we going to do.
Full lists.
Well this is actually going to be a very quick tutorial because we already know how to subset lists
.
It's interesting how we learn it but we just didn't actually outline it.
So here we've got our list are all one which has all those components.
Now remember we talked about the we've been using the double square brackets quite a lot and we've been
using it all same quite a lot but remember we're also talking about the single square brackets.
And we said that if you select an element let's say here we select let's say the first element like
that.
It won't give you back just the actual component.
Ill give you a list containing a component of our on this.
That's right I forgot to Listowel 1.
So are all one.
So if you if I were on that list are all one first component you'll see that it just gives me the first
component but it gives it to me in the list.
Well what that is telling us is that you can actually subsets you get from more than one component in
the square brackets you can say 1 to 2.
So this is a vector of 1 and 2.
And if I run that it'll give me a list containing two components so basically what we've just done is
we've subsidized all list.
Or we're can say one two three.
Right.
So there we go.
We've got a list which contains three components.
Another thing we can do is we can say see.
And let's say we want the first.
And what do we have what came forth.
And we want the timeframes right.
So the unknown times we want just the name of the machine and the known times when there's unknown information
there the that.
Get the machine and not we get the unknown hours.
Very good very good.
And another way we can do that is we could say list underscore our L-1 and we could say see and we could
address them by name we could say machine and let's say stats right.
Run that's there we go.
And if we go and put this in a separate list we'll say sublist are a 1 and you run that then you look
at sublist 1 you've got your own list and then now you can access stuff in this list.
You can work with it separately you can say all right I want the second element second component which
is the stats and in the stats I want I mean the average How do I get the average.
There we go.
That's how you get average.
Very convenient very quick.
And as you can imagine if you're doing some analysis and you've got this big list which we have here
right before that information and you don't need all that information well then just like we did with
the doorframe you'd subset your list you would find just what you need just subsided to those element
the components that you need and then you would just go ahead and work with it.
And moreover here you can you as you can see the names carry over so you can just go and call it by
name.
So you can say stats and second element.
There we go.
That's how you subset lists.
And the other thing I want to show you here is a lot of programmers are beginners and are often get
confused with the double square brackets in single square brackets.
So just be careful that double a single square brackets are four subsetting double square brackets are
for accessing elements of a list.
So let's have a look at that double square brackets are Noss for subsetting as have a look.
So here you'll see if I go a list on the score are a 1 and let's say I try to do something like this
right.
Like so I've got this line which gives me the first three components.
Let's say I try to do that in a double in the double square brackets.
You'll get an error it says recursive indexing failed at level 2.
Basically what it's saying is that you can do it because the double square brackets are designed to
allow you to access the compile a single component of the list.
So you either access this vector or this vector or this vector or or this doorframe or whatever else
is in your list but you can only specify one thing in the double square brackets maybe like or there's
no 7 of course.
Let's say like five right.
That's going to be our doorframe or four is going to be those hours.
So there you go.
So you can only specify one thing or you can just use the dollar sign to specify that one thing that
your officer but you cannot specify a subset so you can go one to three because you will get an error
.
So I'm just going to comment this out so it doesn't bother us and will just say error here.
So be careful of that.
That is like the way we've covered these topics.
It should be completely intuitive that obviously the square double square brackets are practicing elements
or components of lists and the single square brackets are for subsetting lists.
However sometimes when people are just learning these topics for the first time they can get really
confused between the two.
So hopefully that's not going to be huge because now you know completely well which is which and which
is just for subsetting which is used for accessing components.
There we go.
That is how you submitted lists.
And that brings us to the end of the day Sterle have a play around with that.
And I look forward scenics them until then happy coding
.